[ENG-29958] feat: add sql functions guide (#957)
aziontech/docs: src/content/docs/en/pages/guides/edge-sql/retrieve-data/index.mdx

---
title: How to retrieve data from database with Edge SQL and Edge Functions

> description: See how to retrieve data from an existing DB with Edge SQL and Edge Functions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: See how to retrieve data from an existing database (DB) with Edge SQL and Edge Functions.
```

meta_tags: edge sql, storage, cloud, SQL, sqlite, data
namespace: documentation_products_edge_sql_retrieve_data_edge_function
permalink: /documentation/products/guides/edge-sql/retrieve-data-with-edge-functions/
---

import Button from '~/components/Button.astro'

> See how to retrieve data from an existing DB with Edge SQL and Edge Functions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See how to retrieve data from an existing database (DB) with Edge SQL and Edge Functions.
```

---

## Requirements 

- [Azion Edge Functions enabled](/en/documentation/products/build/edge-application/edge-functions/).

> - An active [Personal Token](/en/documentation/products/guides/personal-tokens/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- An active [Azion Personal Token](/en/documentation/products/guides/personal-tokens/).
```

---

## Creating a database and adding a table

:::note 
Replace `{{token}}` with your personal token and `{{db_id}}` with the ID of the database.
:::

1. Create a database by executing the following cURL:

```
curl -X POST https://api.azion.com/v4/edge_sql/databases \
-H "Authorization: Token {{token}}" \
-H "Content-Type: application/json" \
-d '{
    "name": "mydatabase"
}'
```

:::note 

> When the database is created, keep its ID. This piece of information is required in the next steps.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When the database is created, keep its ID. This information is required in the next steps.
```

::: 

> 2. Add a table named users: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Add a table named `users`: 
```

```
curl -X POST 'https://api.azion.com/v4/edge_sql/databases/{{db_id}}/query' \
-H 'Authorization: Token {{token}}' \
-H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
-d '{
    "statements": [
        "CREATE TABLE users (id INTEGER PRIMARY KEY, name TEXT NOT NULL);"
    ]
}'
```

:::note 

> The creation of a database is an async task, so it might take a few minutes so the DB is able to receive and perform actions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The creation of a database is an async task. It might take a few minutes for the DB to receive and perform actions.
```

::: 

3. Populate the table with data: 

```
curl -X POST https://api.azion.com/v4/edge_sql/databases/{{db_id}}/query \

> -H "Authorization: Token azion2b706cb52d46e72a3ef98f3e38067acc745" \

Reviewer 2: Tirar o token

Author: ```suggestion
-H "Authorization: Token {{token}}" \
```

-H "Content-Type: application/json" \
-d '{
    "statements": [
        "INSERT INTO users VALUES (1, '\''user 1'\'');",
        "INSERT INTO users VALUES (2, '\''user 2'\'');",
        "INSERT INTO users VALUES (3, '\''user 3'\'');"
    ]
}'
```

Now, the DB is created and populated with rows.

---

## Creating an edge function to communicate with Edge SQL

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> 1. On [Azion Console](https://console.azion.com/), on the upper-left corner, select **Edge Functions** in the **Edge Libraries** section.
> 2. Click on **Add a Function**.
> 3. Choose a name for your function.
> 4. Delete the placeholder function that is inside the code editor. 
> 5. Paste the following code: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Access [Azion Console](https://console.azion.com/).
2. On the upper-left corner, select **Edge Functions** in the **Edge Libraries** section.
2. Click the **+ Edge Function** button.
3. Choose a name for your function.
4. Delete the placeholder function that is inside the code editor. 
5. Paste the following code: 
```

```js
import { Database } from "azion:sql";

async function db_query() {
  let connection = await Database.open("mydatabase");
  let rows = await connection.query("select * from users");
  let column_count = rows.columnCount();
  let column_names = [];
  for (let i = 0; i < column_count; i++) {
    column_names.push(rows.columnName(i));
  }
  let response_lines = [];
  response_lines.push(column_names.join("|"));
  let row = await rows.next();
  while (row) {
    let row_items = [];
    for (let i = 0; i < column_count; i++) {
      row_items.push(row.getString(i));
    }
    response_lines.push(row_items.join("|"));
    row = await rows.next();
  }
  const response_text = response_lines.join("\n");
  return response_text;
}

async function handle_request(request) {
  if (request.method != "GET") {
    return new Response("Method not allowed", { status: 405 });
  }
  try {
    return new Response(await db_query());
  } catch (e) {
    console.log(e.message, e.stack);
    return new Response(e.message, { status: 500 });
  }
}

addEventListener("fetch", (event) =>
  event.respondWith(handle_request(event.request))
);
``` 

:::note

> Since in this example we're retrieving data, the method was set to be only GET. You can implement the business logic necessary to meet your needs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since this example is for retrieving data, the method was set to be only GET. You can implement the business logic necessary to meet your needs.
```

:::

> We've created an edge function that communicates with Edge SQL. Now, it's necessary to instantiate this function in a running edge application:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This edge function was created to communicate with Edge SQL. Now, it's necessary to instantiate this function in a running edge application:
```
